In this lecture will be learning about the circuit breaker pattern that will help prevent failures in
some part of the network or in a particular micro service from bringing down the entire system.
When a service sends a synchronous request to another service it's possible that the other service is
unavailable or under too much load to respond in a reasonable period as more requests are received.
The number of threats blocked waiting for a response from the service continues to pile up and further
reduce the chance of disservices recovering.
Additionally these logged threats can result in resource exhaustion leading to errors cascading to other
services and potentially cascade strokes the whole system rendering it unusable.
To prevent such a scenario from cascading to other components services are requesting other micro services
in a synchronous manner should do so through a module known as a circuit breaker this module keeps track
of the number of consecutive requests to a service that has failed and the certain threshold is exceeded
and the request to the service will fail immediately for a timeout period.
Wants to timeout period has passed a limited number of requests are performed to see if the service
has recovered.
If so the normal operation is resumed.
Otherwise the timeout is restarted.
The use of a timeout period avoids continuing to overload the service and improves the chance of it
took cover Inc.
It also prevents potential resource exhaustion issues from cascading through out the system.
There is no recommended time will tell you as this depends on normal processing times in a specific
system but as a rule of thumb it is usually set to a few seconds with this value increasing each time
the time of value passes and the service is still unavailable.
The circuit breaker is a crosscutting model that should be included in all Microcircuits is performing
synchronous requests to their Microcircuits is intense.
We can consider including it as a reference in the Microcircuits template.
This can be removed if it's not required by the service.